Allow C11 Atomics to Be Used Without Generic Address Space (#358)
KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs: OpenCL_C.txt

[source,c]
----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0 or newer.

Reviewer: Should this be "OpenCL C **2.0** or newer" or "OpenCL C **3.0** or newer"?

I'm not sure if it's observable, but the function overloads for the named (non-generic) address spaces were not in previous OpenCL C specifications.

This same comment applies elsewhere in this PR, also.

Author: Yes, you're correct.  It should say 3.0.  I'll fix that.

Author: Fixed.

--
[source,c]
----------
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
void atomic_store(volatile __global A *object, C desired)
void atomic_store(volatile __local A *object, C desired)

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,

Reviewer 2: btw I am not sure this wording is correct but I think we use it everywhere across:

> Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space, __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.

I guess what we mean here is that we require OpenCL C v2.0 or the following features to be supported. However, in contrast to extensions we never gave name to features so there is no way to enumerate them unambiguously now. I think however this is just a wording issue that can be fixed later?

Author: > I guess what we mean here is that we require OpenCL C v2.0 or the following features to be supported i.e. require feature macro doesn't really explain precisely what is needed.

Yes, exactly.  The wording is deliberately terse because there are a lot of cases.

> I presume if feature macros are defined by the user then most this functionality will be available but this is not the case generally.

Now I'm not sure I understand your comment.  The implementation sets the feature macros, not the user.   I.e. this builtin will only be present for implementations that also set the listed feature macros.

> However, in contrast to extensions, we never gave names to features so there is no way to enumerate them unambiguously now. I think this is just a wording issue that can be fixed later?

There is a table at the start of the document, these macro names are all present there.

Author: There is also still this ticket about seeing if features can be made clearer (but without actually changing their meaning etc): https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs/issues/330

It's not done yet but it's in the 3.0 project.

Reviewer 2: Yes I think it makes sense to cover this in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs/issues/330.

So what I actually meant is that for extensions we used to define a name that was the same as extension macro normally (see OpenCL Extensions section 1.1).

Then we could write something like:
> The half scalar and vector types can only be used if the cl_khr_fp16 extension is supported andhas  been  enabled. 

`cl_khr_fp16` was referring to the name of the extension.

Currently we can not say "pipe can only be used if the __opencl_c_pipes feature is supported" because `__opencl_c_pipes` is a macro technically and not a feature. But describing that a type requires feature macro is not entirely correct or at least imprecise.

However, let's leave this for now and address this in #330.

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: Similar to above:

```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
C atomic_load(volatile __global A *object)
C atomic_load(volatile __local A *object)

// Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,
// __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature
// macros.
C atomic_load(volatile A *object)

> // Requires OpenCL C 3.0 and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.
```

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: Similar to above:

```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
C atomic_exchange(volatile __global A *object, C desired)
C atomic_exchange(volatile __local A *object, C desired)

// Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,
// __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature
// macros.
C atomic_exchange(volatile A *object, C desired)

> // Requires OpenCL C 3.0 and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.
```

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: Similar to above:

```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Author: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: Similar to above:

```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
C atomic_fetch_key(volatile __global A *object, M operand)
C atomic_fetch_key(volatile __local A *object, M operand)

// Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,
// __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature
// macros.
C atomic_fetch_key(volatile A *object, M operand)

> // Requires OpenCL C 3.0 and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.
```

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
bool atomic_flag_test_and_set(
    volatile __global atomic_flag *object)
bool atomic_flag_test_and_set(
    volatile __local atomic_flag *object)

// Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,
// __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature
// macros.
bool atomic_flag_test_and_set(
    volatile atomic_flag *object)

> // Requires OpenCL C 3.0 and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.
```

----------

> // Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and both the __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst
```

// and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macros.
void atomic_flag_clear(volatile __global atomic_flag *object)
void atomic_flag_clear(volatile __local atomic_flag *object)

// Requires OpenCL C 2.0, or all of the __opencl_c_generic_address_space,
// __opencl_c_atomic_order_seq_cst and __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature
// macros.
void atomic_flag_clear(volatile atomic_flag *object)

> // Requires OpenCL C 3.0 and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Requires OpenCL C 3.0 or newer and the __opencl_c_atomic_scope_device feature macro.
```
